Or writes on the last video we kind of organizes a little bit we put the database in another location
the database connection and we refactor this a little bit.
Now let's go ahead and create a query here on this select so that we can pull the ID from the database
IDs that we have for records here.
All right we only got two right now and let's do that.
Let's go ahead and create that right away.
So.
So let's go ahead and I'm just going to comment that out.
All right.
And the first thing that I want to do here is create a query right.
As a matter of fact we have one up here we can use this right here.
All right.
And that's it we can use this because this is going to select everything from the users.
So we have to do down here is create a while loop to pool all this information out.
All right so let's create a while loop for us.
Let's go ahead and do the feed tag of course.
All right.
It's this is this is this here.
And then we can organize it right.
All right so while and shows open in wow.
And we're going to say while rolled like we learned before how to read information and let's make it
equal to my rescue Well I fetch and we're going to say so associate of a raise actually better then.
All right.
And why do we want to fetch the salt right.
Because that's what we got here.
This is the result from the query right.
So let's just copy that ring it down here.
OK.
And I just want to go ahead and use this whole thing there as a matter of fact.
So just bring that up here and I'm going to use it with Echo.
All right let's do that.
Lay here.
When the enclosure and apostrophe's there.
OK.
Now we've got to take these quotes out of there because we've got we can have double cords inside those
cords.
We've got to put single quotes if not this line.
If you put a double coil he's going to tell BHB to stop executing here.
And then you put double quotes here he's going to get confused going to give you an error.
So make sure you put single quotes right.
You can see my code changes when I put the records.
So I did my editor is already telling me that something is wrong.
All right so what we want to put here is the row I say as a matter of fact I want to make this row.
This row is going to return like an associate of field or an associate of a array.
So he's going to return like this ID.
That's how we we can echo it but I'm going to make sure that this actually turns into I'm going to create
I'm going to put this in a variable basically.
Right I write this in a variable and is giving me a narrow arrow here let's just check since I expect
of course I got that.
We get that because we don't have a semi-colon there.
So we're pulling the ID number what we actually designed is not dynamically.
We're going to do it right now ID and make sure you have it here to ID.
So now we're pull the two ideas from the database.
We got one in three.
We can create another record used to show you that it does work.
So let's just create another record real quick.
So that way you can see that he's going to do that.
So let's go to the create file that we have the logging create and create another record real quick
so that where we can see this plane.
Right.
So this is the log in underscore create and you're going to create another user I'm going to call this
I don't know.
Prince pass were Francis or something close.
I can't see it.
And then I click submit that already created our Recker and that's a good sign.
We're going to refresh it here use to make sure and we see that we have a new record here.
Now we're going to go to that file.
The update right here the update.
See how that is.
But just make sure we are here.
And as you can see here we have the new idea here number five.
So now we're pulling data directly from the database into this select field here.
Right.
Really cool.
All right.
And we did this with a WHILE loop but we have the Querrey up here so make sure you always have a query
if you don't have a query you can pull information from the database.
This is a this is what is actually pulling information this query right here.
And we use this function to send it in right here with a connection so make sure that you understand
the concept.
Now what I really wanted to do is actually I don't like this the way it is right now this is too messy
right.
So I want to actually create a function to do this for me.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to take all the square Riady here I'm going to take it out right
and and going back and I'm going to create a new file before well before I do.
Let's just do her back tears that way we have it just in case.
But let's create a new file and call it functions and they already have a functions on the regular file
folder so don't get confused just making new functions under my Cuil folder.
So I'm just going to send new file functions if you want you can name or something else and you're going
to name it functions at BHB.
Right.
And that's open this.
And if you don't want to close it that's fine.
BHB knows that you won you know ph because after this so now I'm going to I'm going to paste that Kohary
in there from the logging OBD-II.
I just kind of take this off right here.
There we go.
So now remember to always include it up here because if you don't include it you won't have the same
functionality so that's included here.
Functions duppy HP.
There we go.
Now let's actually take this off to here because it's too messy.
When when I use a function.
So that's what we're going to be doing here.
Let's just put this in below here and we're going to wrap all this code in a function just like we learn
how to do functions right.
Isn't is going to be a custom functions.
So what is this going.
This function going to do because you've got to be descriptive with functions where you can remember
this function is going to find it's going to pool all the data from.
They use a stable so data show or data show all data.
Just going to color like this.
All right.
And let's just wrap it up on the function.
And now we have this function here where we have to do is call the function from the other side.
Any should work good should work perfect.
Let's make sure we save and save this file save for there if you want.
But I did already with my keywords and wanted to show you that I didn't and this go to logging of date
here.
All we have to do is call the function right in between the select here where we had the loop.
OK.
So that's all I'm going to do.
Call the function.
Boom let's just make sure this is a little bit more organized this way.
And we can condense it condense it a little bit.
That looks a lot cleaner doesn't it.
Right.
And then we do have all these files here.
What I really want to do is actually make this a little more let's just make it like this.
All right.
And just make sure that any clue is here.
Perfect.
I think this is this looks a lot better like this.
All right.
So let's go ahead and see what's going on.
And so this live guy written without errors.
All right.
All right so we need to get rid of this.
All right so this looks good but it's not pulling anything out of here.
I wonder why.
Right.
Well let's check let's see what happens.
All right.
So this function here is not pulling the data out of it so the problem is not here because obviously
the function it's working.
We've got functions that BHP there is including it.
And what we need to do is we need to include this data base on the functions because it functions don't
know anything about the database.
So let's make sure that we have this database included here right now where we have that information.
Not that we want to do is we need to make sure that this connection here is global.
All right.
So global connection.
So let's go back to the day.
And now we're picking up the data.
Now let me explain to you what happened.
Right.
So we created a function in the
function that BHB be here when we were looking for connection we couldn't find it anywhere because I
had never included that database.
The database file which has the connection.
So it was no way they were going to find it was going to do anything it was just going to stay there.
Now because I have the connection variable somewhere else even though I'm including a here I need to
still set it up as a global right because it's inside this function.
Remember that everything inside a function is in the local scope.
So nothing gets in the function unless you put it in yourself.
And the way we put in things like like variables from all the places in functions is with a global keyword.
This would make the variable global.
Right.
It would bring it in from outside in this case is going to be in another file.
So make sure that you do that.
OK.
So anyways I think we did a lot in this in this video here and on the next one I'm going to show you
how to create the rest of the query here too when we click Update to update the files.
Well the data here in the database.
Right.
So anyway thank you so much for watching.
Hopefully you are able to understand what we did if not just rewind the video is super easy what we
did.
All right.
Thank you so much and I see you in the next lecture